A R E Y O U A N I N T E L L I G E N T I N V E S T O R ?

Now let’s answer a vitally important question. What exactly does Graham
mean by an “intelligent” investor? Back in the first edition of this
book, Graham defines the term—and he makes it clear that this kind of
intelligence has nothing to do with IQ or SAT scores. It simply means
being patient, disciplined, and eager to learn; you must also be able to
harness your emotions and think for yourself. This kind of intelligence,
explains Graham, “is a trait more of the character than of the brain.”2
There’s proof that high IQ and higher education are not enough to
make an investor intelligent. In 1998, Long-Term Capital Management
L.P., a hedge fund run by a battalion of mathematicians, computer
scientists, and two Nobel Prize–winning economists, lost more than
$2 billion in a matter of weeks on a huge bet that the bond market
would return to “normal.” But the bond market kept right on becoming
more and more abnormal—and LTCM had borrowed so much money
that its collapse nearly capsized the global financial system.3
And back in the spring of 1720, Sir Isaac Newton owned shares in
the South Sea Company, the hottest stock in England. Sensing that
the market was getting out of hand, the great physicist muttered that
he “could calculate the motions of the heavenly bodies, but not the
madness of the people.” Newton dumped his South Sea shares, pocketing
a 100% profit totaling £7,000. But just months later, swept up in
the wild enthusiasm of the market, Newton jumped back in at a much
higher price—and lost £20,000 (or more than $3 million in today’s
money). For the rest of his life, he forbade anyone to speak the words
“South Sea” in his presence.

Sir Isaac Newton was one of the most intelligent people who ever
lived, as most of us would define intelligence. But, in Graham’s terms,
Newton was far from an intelligent investor. By letting the roar of the
crowd override his own judgment, the world’s greatest scientist acted
like a fool.

In short, if you’ve failed at investing so far, it’s not because you’re
stupid. It’s because, like Sir Isaac Newton, you haven’t developed the
emotional discipline that successful investing requires. In Chapter 8,
Graham describes how to enhance your intelligence by harnessing
your emotions and refusing to stoop to the market’s level of irrationality.
There you can master his lesson that being an intelligent investor is
more a matter of “character” than “brain.”